# Twitter Clone

## Repository Owner

- Each group must assign one repository owner
- The repository owner must fork this repository. Only the repository owner should fork the repository
  - This could be done by clicking the "Fork" button on the top right.
- The repository owner must invite their goupmates as collaborators in their fork
  - This could be done by going to Settings>Collaborators>Add people
- The group must use the fork to collaborate on their project. They must commit and push their code in their forks.
- The group must submit the link of the repository of the repository owner in the submission bin

## Getting Started

Follow these steps to set up and run the Twitter Clone project:

1. **Install Node.js**:
   Make sure you have Node.js installed on your system. If not, download and install it from the official website.

2. **Fork and Clone the Repository**:

   - Clone your forked repository to your local machine using Git.

3. **Install Dependencies**:

   - Open a terminal and navigate to the cloned repository.
   - Install the API dependencies by running the command:
     ```
     npm run init-api
     ```
   - Install the UI dependencies by running the command:
     ```
     npm run init-ui
     ```

4. **Run the API**:

   - Start the API server by running:
     ```
     npm run start-api
     ```
   - Visit `http://localhost:3000/api` in your web browser to check if the API is up and running.
   - Visit `http://localhost:3000/api/docs` in your web browser to see the documentation of the API.

5. **Run the UI**:

   - Open a new terminal window (keep the API terminal running).
   - Start the UI development server with:
     ```
     npm run start-ui
     ```
   - Visit `http://127.0.0.1:8080` in your web browser to see if the UI is working.

6. **Start Developing**:
   - Begin working on the UI in the `TwitterCloneUi` folder.
   - Add your HTML, CSS, and JS files to build the Twitter Clone interface.

Remember: **Do not modify the `TwitterCloneApi` folder**; it contains essential API code.

## Deployment

To deploy this application you need to to use netlify. See the [documentation](https://docs.netlify.com/) to see how deployments are done in Netlify.

The netlify.toml file contains nearly all the necessary values needed for deploying the application. There are no additional values needed to be set up except the JWT_KEY environment variable

## Step by step Deployment Guide

The deployment process for netlify should be straight forward, but here's a step by step guide in case you need it.

1. Make sure that your forked is synced
2. Visit [the netlify website](https://netlify.app/) and click on "Deploy to Netlify"
3. Create an account and sign up with your github profile
4. Click on the "Add new site" button and select "Import and Exisitng Project"
5. Click on "Deploy with Github". Netlify might ask for Authentication in which case you would need to allow Netlify.
6. Select your repository from the list.
7. Set the site name to your desired name.
8. The `Build command`, `Publish directory`, and `Functions directory` should be prefilled with the necessary information. If not, make sure to sync your fork and check again.
9. Click on "Deploy" and wait a couple of minutes for netlify to deploy your application. Once netlify is finished, a green tag with the text "Published" should appear in "Production Deploys"
10. Et voila, you have deployed your application 🎉 Now you need to step up the JWT_KEY

### Setting up the JWT_KEY

The JWT_KEY is used to generate the tokens and make sure that the tokens generated by the system is indeed generated by the system itself. Otherwise, attackers might be able to generate tokens themselves and compromise the system. This is why the key needs to be generated and entered manually. They must not be known to anyone but the developers.

1. To setup the JWT_KEY environment variable, you would first need to generate a secret key. You may refer to [this](https://dev.to/tkirwa/generate-a-random-jwt-secret-key-39j4) tutorial for generating a secret key
   - Once generated, your private key may look something like this `ddcb75b4f402f240234eec4bf175fa9e8c15aea5...`
2. Once you have created a secret key, you need to add your private key as an environment variable. The name of the key must be `JWT_KEY` and the value is your private key.
   - You may refer to [this](https://docs.netlify.com/environment-variables/get-started/#site-environment-variables) documentation for a tutorial on how to set environment variables in netlify

Happy coding! 🚀🐦


How your website accomplished each item in the criteria.

Where could the concepts discussed in your website?
We have obviously used html forms and tags throughout our frontend implementation, as for the design we have used CSS to put styling
and design on our website. We used flexbox for the layouting on all our html pages and used animations and transitions in the sidebar
for a more ui friendly user experience. We used media query for the responiveness of our website to ensure that the layout will always
be in our defined terms. In our javascript files, we used loops and control structures to make sure our functions and event listeners
keep working and accept proper parameters. Arrays, functions, Objects and Exports are used for the funtionality of all our javascript files. 
Lastly, event handlers and fetch APIs are used to fetch data from the server and trigger functions everytime a user clicked a functional
entities in the website.


What is your inspiration for the design of the website?
The website is inspired by the color theme of the github website, we wanted our theme to be similar to it because of the beautiful simplicity
it offers. Not only that but we are also inspired of game community patch notes, so we decided to put a blog on the website to let the users know
about the direction and the plans of the developers going forward. Finally for the website layout, we used a touch of gray for a bit of "our" style 
to show a more personal touch from ours.


What was your approach in creating the content of the website?
We decided to keep the contents minimum and limit it to the text. The conteent should be user friendly but at the same time, the developers
should not have much difficulty assessing and developing the website for future updates. Most of the content we offer come from the users themselves
so we concerned ourseves with the functionality and the ui-friendliness of our product.


How is your website creative?
By sticking to one color scheme and keeping the design at the minimum, we made sure that the design is kept to a minimum but at the same time shows
simple beauty. I think that is where our creativity shines, the balance between simplicity and beauty is what keeps our website unique.


What did you use to deploy your website?
Netlify


How you worked as a team to accomplish the project


How did you divide the tasks between the team, and what is the responsibility of each one?

Chris Santos- worked for the front end implementation and main developer for front end implementation.
Angelo Ebrada- designed the main page log in. 
Reynielle Borbe- designed the figma design for the twitter clone page.
Earl Ugalino- helped the integration between front end and back end. 
John Luiz Gonzzaga- developed backend functions and deployed the website.
John Edward Aguirang- main developer for backend implementation.

We divided the tasks to three categories: Design, Front-end development and Back-end development. This is to make sure that people have enough responsibilitiesand 

How did you prevent your changes in code from conflicting with each other?
We made sure that we are working on different areas of the code as the same time, there must not be two people working on the same
file at once. All commits and push must be notified for all the members to know.

How you could improve your website in the future?
Sadly,we cannot implement the profile page, likes and follows to our website. We look forward to impelmenting this into the foreseeable future.

Other thoughts that might be worthy.
I think we struggled with the backend too much because of the fact that we have absolutely no idea how it works, granted we have documentations
provided but we are still not adept at it because of the fact that we do not know the thought process in the twitter api code. The fault still lies
on us though, but if we are to do this again maybe we could have some background on backend design this time.